Source: American Pie
Servings/Yield: 4 dough balls
Prep Time:

Ingredients: 
	5 cups (638g) bread flour, or unbleached high–gluten flour (22 1/2 ounces)
	1 tablespoon (14g) honey, or sugar
	2 teaspoons (16g) table salt, or 3 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
	1 teaspoon (4g) instant yeast
	2 tablespoons (28.5g) olive oil, or vegetable oil or vegetable shortening
	1 3/4 cups plus 1 tablespoon (412g) water, room–temperature (70ºf) 
	olive oil
	water for adjustments, room temperature (70ºf)
	
Directions: 
	METHOD:
	
	1. With a large metal spoon, stir together all the ingredients in a 4–quart bowl or the bowl of an electric stand mixer until combined.
	
	IF MIXING WITH AN ELECTRIC MIXER
	Fit it with the dough hook and mix on low speed for about four minutes, or until all the flour gathers to form a coarse ball. Let the dough rest for five minutes, then mix again on medium–low speed for an additional two minutes, or until the dough clears the sides of the bowl and sticks just a little to  the bottom. If the dough is too soft and sticky to hold its shape, mix in more flour by the tablespoonful; if it is too stiff or dry, mix in more water by the tablespoonful. The dough should pass the windowpane test (book page № 105).
	
	IF MIXING BY HAND
	Repeatedly dip one of your hands or the spoon into room–temperature water and use it much like a dough hook working the dough vigorously into a coarse ball as you rotate the bowl with your other hand. As all the flour is incorporated into the ball, about four minutes, the dough will begin to strengthen; when this occurs, let the dough rest for five minutes and the resume mixing for an additional two to three minutes, or until the dough is slightly sticky, soft, and supple,.If the dough is too soft and sticky to hold its shape, mix in more flour by the tablespoonful; if it is too stiff or dry, mix in more water by the tablespoonful. The dough should pass the windowpane test (book page № 105)
	
	2. Immediately divide the dough into four equal pieces. Round each piece into a ball and brush or rub each ball with olive or vegetable oil. Place each ball inside its own zippered freezer bag. Let the balls sit at room temperature for fifteen minutes, then put them in the refrigerator overnight or freeze any pieces you will not be using the next day. (Or, if you are making the pizzas on the same day, let the dough balls sit in the bags at room temperature for one hour, remove them from the bags, punch them down, reshape them into balls, return them to the bags, and refrigerate for at least two hours.)
	
	3. THE NEXT DAY (or later the same day if refrigerated for only two hours), remove the balls from the refrigerator two hours before you plan to roll them out to take off the chill and to relax the gluten. At this point, you can hold any balls you don't want to use right away in the refrigerator for another day, or you can freeze them for up to three months.

Notes: 

Bakers Percentage Formula: 
	bread flour 100%
	honey	2.19%
	table salt	2.5%
	instant yeast	.62%
	olive oil	4.47%
	water 64.5%

Added: 2009-12-22

#pizza #dough #PeterReinhart #bread