Source: The Bread Baker’s Apprentice
Bread Profile: Lean, stiff dough; indirect method, commerical yeast
Servings/Yield: Makes 12 large or 24 mini bagels
Prep Time: 2 Days
	Day 1: 2 hours sponge,; 10 to 15 minutes mixing; 1 to 1 1/2 hours fermentation, shaping, and proofing.
	Day 2: 10 minutes boiling; 15 to 20 minutes baking.

Ingredients: 
	SPONGE
		1 teaspoon (3.11g) instant yeast
		4 cups (510g) unbleached high-gluten or bread flour
		2 1/2 cups (567g) water, at room temperature
		
	DOUGH
		1/2 teaspoons (1.56g) instant yeast
		3 3/4 cups (482g) unbleached high–gluten or bread flour
		2 3/4 teaspoons (19.8g) salt
		2 teaspoons (9.35g) malt powder
		or 1 tablespoon (14g) dark or light malt syrup, honey, or brown sugar
		
	TO FINISH
		1 tablespoon baking soda
		Cornmeal or Semolina Flour for dusting
		Sesame Seeds, poppy seeds, kosher salt, rehydrated dried minced garlic or onions, or chopped fresh onions that have been tossed in oil (optional)
		
Directions: 
	1. To make the sponge, stir the yeast into the flour in a 4-quart mixing bowl. Add the water, whisking or stirring only until it formas a smooth, sticky batter (like pancake batter). Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and leave at room temperature for approximately 2 hours, or until the mixture becomes very foamy and bubbly. It should swell to nearly double in size and collapse when the bowl is tapped on the countertop.
	
	2. To make the dough, in the same mixing bowl (or in the bowl of an electric mixer), add the additional yeast to the sponge and stir. Then add 3 cups of the flour and all of the salt and malt. Stir (or mix on low speed with the dough hook) until the ingredients form a ball, slowly working in the remaining 3/4 cup flour to stiffen the dough.
	
	3. Transfer the dough to teh counter and knead for at least 10 minutes (or for 6 minutes by machine). The dough should be firm, stiffer than French bread dough, but still pliable and smooth. There should be no raw flour — all the ingredients should be hydrated. The dough should pass the windowpane test (see page 58) and register 77ºF to 81ºF. If the dough seems too dry and rips, add a few drops of water and continue kneading. If the dough seems tacky or sticky, add more flour to achieve the stiffness required. The kneaded dough should feel satiny and pliable but not be tacky.
	
	4. Immediately divide the dough into 4 1/2-ounce pieces for standard bagels, or smaller if desired.
	
	5. Cover the rolls with a damp towel and allow them to rest for approximately 20 minutes.
	
	6. Line 2 sheet pans with baking parchment and mist lightly with spray oil. Proceed with one of the following shaping methods.
	
	SHAPING BAGELS
		Method 1: Poke a hole in a ball of bagel dough and gently rotate your thumb around the inside of the hole to widen it to approximately 2 1/2 inches in diameter. The dough should be as evenly stretched as possible (try to avoid thick and thin spots).
		
		Method 2: Roll out the dough into an 8-inch-long rope. (This may require rolling part of the way and resting if the pieces are too elastic and snap back, in which case, allow them to rest for 3 minutes and then extend them again to bring to full length.) Wrap the dough around the palm and back of your hand between the thumb and forefinger, overlapping the ends by several inches. Press the overlapping ends on the counter with the palm of your hand, rocking back and forth to seal.
		
	7. Place each of the shaped pieces 2 inches apart on the pans. Mist the bagels very lightly with the spray oil and slip each pan into a food grade plastic bag, or cover loosely with plastic wrap. Let the pans sit at room temperature for about 20 minutes.
	
	8. Check to see if the bagels are ready to be retarded in the refrigerator by using the "float test." Fill a small bowl with cool or room temperature water. The bagels are ready to be retarded when they float within 10 seconds of being dropped into the water. Take one bagel and test it. If it floats, immediately return the tester bagel to the pan, pat it dry , cover the pan, and place it in the refrigerator overnight 9it can stay in the refrigerator for up to 2 days). If the bagel does not float, return it to the pan and continue to proof the dough at room temperature, checking back every 10 to 20 minutes or so until a tester floats. The time needed to accomplish the float will vary, depending on the ambient temperature and stiffness of the dough.
	
	9. The following day (or when you are ready to bake the bagels), preheat the oven to 500ºF with the two racks set in the middle of the oven. Bring a large pot of water to a boil (the wider the pot the better), and add the baking soda. Have a slotted spoon or skimmer nearby.
	
	10. Remove the bagels from the refigerator and gently drop them into the twater, boiling only as many as comfortably fit (they should float within 10 seconds). After 1 minute flip them over and boil for another minute. If you like very chewy bagels, you can extend the boiling time to 2 minutes per side. While the bagels are boiling, sprinkle the same parchment–lined sheet pans with cornmeal or semolina flour. (If you decide to replace teh paper, be sure to spray the new paper lightly with spray oil to prevent the bagels from sticking to the surface.) IF you want to top the bagels, do so as soon as they come out of the water. You can use any of the suggestions in the ingredients list or a combination. I make a seed and salt blend.
	
	11. When all the bagels have been boiled, place the pans on the 2 middle shelves in the oven. Bake for approximately 5 minutes, then rotate the pans, switching shelves and giving the pans a 180º rotation. (if you are baking only 1 pan, keep it on the center shelf but still rotate 180º.) After the rotation, lower the oven setting to 450ºF and continue baking for about 5 minutes, or until the bagels turn light golden brown. You may bake them darker if you prefer.
	
	12. Remove the pans from the oben and let teh bagels cool on a rack for 15 minutes or longer before serving.
	
	
Notes: 
	CINNAMON RAISIN BAGELS
		For cinnamon raisin bagels, increast the yeast in the final dough to 1 teaspoon, and add 1 tablespoon of ground cinnamon and 6 tablespoons of granulated sugar to the final dough. Rinse 2 cups of loosely packed raisins with warm water to wash off surface sugar, acid, and natural wild yeast. Add the raisins during the final 2 minutes of mixing. Proceed as directed, but do not top the bagels with any garnishes. When they come out of the oven and are still hot, you can brush the tops with melted butter and dop them in cinnamon sugar to create a cinnamon-sugar crust, if desired.
		
Alterations to Peter Reinhart’s bagel recipe from The Bread Baker’s Apprentice.
Source: Vegan Dad

	Multi-Grain Mixed Berry Bagels
	"I made the sponge out of 5 oz oat bran, 2 oz steel cut oats, 2 oz 12 grain cereal, and 9 oz white flour (plus the yeast and water the recipe calls for). I let it soak for an extra hour. In the final dough I replaced 4 oz of the white flour with vital wheat gluten. In the final minutes of kneading I added 1 1/2 cups of dried berries (I used blueberries, cranberries, and cherries)."

	Whole Wheat Bagels
	"Replace white flour with whole wheat flour, but replace 2 oz with vital wheat gluten. I find that bagels need good gluten content to remain that dense and chewy consistency."

Bakers Percentage Formula: 
	SPONGE
		Instant Yeast	.31%
		High Gluten flour	51.4%
		Water	57.1%
	DOUGH
		Instant Yeast	.16%
		High–gluten flour	48.6%
		Salt	2%
		Malt Powder	.94%
	TOTAL 160.5%
	
	Cinnamon Raisin Bagels
		SPONGE
			Instant Yeast .31%
			HIgh-Gluten Flour	51.4%
			Water	57.1%
		DOUGH
			Instant Yeast	.31%
			High-Gluten Flour	48.6%
			Salt	2%
			Malt Powder	1%
			Raisins	34.3%
			Cinnamon Sugar	8.6%
		TOTAL	203.6%
		
	Added: 2009-11-18

#bagel #breakfast #dough #bread #PeterReinhart
