
Source: Vegan Brunch
Servings/Yield: 4 to 6
Prep Time: 

Ingredients: 

For the spice blend:
2 teaspoons ground cumin
1 teaspoon dried thyme, crushed with your fingers
1⁄2 teaspoon ground turmeric 
1 teaspoon salt 
3 tablespoons water
		
For the tofu:
3 garlic cloves, minced (or more, to taste)
2 tablespoons olive oil 
1 pound extra-firm tofu, drained 
1⁄4 cup nutritional yeast 
Fresh black pepper, to taste

Directions: 
First blend the spices and salt together in a small cup. Add the water and mix. Set aside.
	
Preheat a large, heavy-bottomed pan over medium-high heat. Sauté the garlic in olive oil for about a minute. Break the tofu apart into bite-size pieces and sauté for about 10 minutes, stirring often. Get under the tofu when you are stirring, scrape the bottom, and don’t let it stick to the pan; that is where the good, crispy stuff is. (Use a thin metal spatula to get the job done; a wooden or plastic one won’t really cut it.) The tofu should brown on at least one side, but you don’t need to be too precise about it. The water should cook out of it and not collect too much at the bottom of the pan. If that is happening, turn the heat up and let the water evaporate. Conversely, if the scramble seems dry add splashes of water until it’s nice and moist.
	
Add the spice blend and mix to incorporate. Add the nutritional yeast and pepper. Cook for about 5 more minutes. Serve warm.


Notes: 
VARIATIONS
	
BROCCOLI
Cut broccoli into about 1 cup of small florets and thinly sliced stems. Add along with the tofu.

ONION
Finely chop 1 small onion. Add along with the garlic and cook for about 5 minutes, until translucent. Proceed with recipe.

RED BELL PEPPERS
Remove stem and seeds and finely chop 1 red bell pepper. Add along with the garlic and cook for about 5 minutes. Proceed with recipe.

MUSHROOMS
Thinly slice about 1 cup mushrooms. Add along with the tofu.

OLIVES
Chop about 1/3 cup sliced olives. Add towards the end of cooking, after mixing in the 	nutritional yeast. I love to use black olives, but use whatever you like.

SPINACH
Add about 1 cup chopped spinach towards the end of cooking, after mixing in the nutritional yeast. Cook until completely wilted.
	
CARROTS
Grate 1⁄2 an average-size carrot into the scramble towards the end of cooking. This is a great way to add color to the scramble.

AVOCADO
I almost always have avocado with my scramble. Just peel, slice, and serve on top.
		
Added: 2011-05-22

#vegan #brunch #breakfast