Source: The Bread Baker’s Apprentice
Bread Profile: Enriched, stiff dough; direct method; commercial yeast
Servings/Yield: Makes 1 sheet pan of crackers
Prep Time:  1 Day. 10 to 15 minutes mixing; 2 hours fermentation, shaping, and panning; 15 to 20 minutes baking.

Ingredients: 
	1 1/2 cups (6.75 ounces) unbleached bread flour
	1/2 teaspoon (.13 ounce) salt
	1/2 teaspoon (.055 ounces) instant yeast
	1 tablespoon (.75 ounce) honey
	1 tablespoon (.5 ounce) vegetable oil
	1/3 to 1/2 cup (3 to 4 ounces) water, at room temperature
	Poppy seeds, sesame seeds, paprika, cumin seeds, caraway seeds, or kosher salt for topping.
	
Directions: 
	1. In a mixing bowl, stir together the flour, salt, yeast, honey, oil, and just enough water to bring everything together into a ball. You may not need the full 1/2 cup of water, but be prepared to use it all if needed.
	
	2. Sprinkle some flour on the counter and transfer the dough to the counter. Knead four about 10 minutes, or until the ingredients are evenly distributed. The dough should pass the windowpane test (page 58) and register 77ºF to 81ºF. The dough should be firmer than French Bread dough, but not quite as firm as bagel dough (what I call medium–firm dough), satiny to the touch, not tacky, and supple enough to stretch when pulled. Lightly oil a bowl and transfer the dough to the bowl, rolling it around to coat it with oil. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap.
	
	3. Ferment at room temperature for 90 minutes, or until the dough doubles in size. (You can also instead retard the dough overnight in the refrigerator immediately after kneading.)
	
	4. Mist the counter lightly with spray oil and transfer the dough to the counter. PRess the dough into a square with your hand and dust the top of the dough lightly with flour. Roll it out with a rolling pin into a paper–thin sheet about 15 inches by 12 inches. You may have to stop from time to time so that the gluten can relax. At these times, lift the dough from the counter and wave it a little, and then lay it back down. Cover it with a towel or plastic wrap while it relaxes. When it is the desired thinness, let the dough relax for 5 minutes. Line a sheet pan with baking parchment. Carefully lift the sheet of dough and lay it on the parchment. If it overlaps the edge of the pan, snip off the excess with scissors.
	
	5. Preheat the oven to 350ºF with the oven rack on the middle shelf. Mist the top of the dough with water and sprinkle a covering of seeds or spices on the dough (such as alternating rows of poppy seeds, sesame seeds, paprika, cumin seeds, caraway seeds, kosher or pretzel salt, etc.). Be careful with spices; a little goes a long way. If you want precut crackers, use a pizza cutter (rolling blade) and cut diamonds or rectangles in the dough. You do not need to separate the pieces, as they will snap apart after baking. If you want to make shards, bake the sheet of dough without cutting it first.
	
	6. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, or until the crackers begin to brown evenly across the top (the time will depend on how thinly and evenly you rolled the dough).
	
	7. When the crackers are baked, remove the pan from the oven and let them cool in the pan for about 10 minutes. You can then snap them apart or snap off shards and serve.
	
Notes: 
	Can be used to make pita – roll out 6 ounce pieces into 8 inch diameter circles and bake them in a 500ºF on a baking stone until they inflate. Count to 10, then remove breads from the oven with a peel. After cooled cut in half and use for pocket sandwiches.

Bakers Percentage Formula: 
	Bread flour	100%
	Salt	1.9%
	Instant Yeast	.81%
	Honey	11.1%
	Oil		7.4%
	Water (approx.)		51.9%
	Total		173.1%
	
Added: 2009-11-18

#
