Source:  Chowhound
Servings/Yield: 8
Prep Time: 

Ingredients: 
1½ cups white whole wheat flour 
¼ cup golden flax seed meal
½ cup quick-cooking oats 
2 Tbsp. sugar 
½ tsp. kosher salt 
1 Tbsp. baking powder 
2 Tbsp. maple syrup 
2½ Tbsp. butter, cut into small chunks 
1 large egg 
½ cup skim milk 
½ tsp. maple extract
¼ pecans--I toasted and cooled these before adding.

For Glaze (optional)--I don't like glazes on scones, so i didn't use it...
1 Tbsp. orange juice 
½ cup powdered sugar

Directions: 
Preheat oven to 425º F. Place flour, flax seed meal, oats, sugar, salt and baking powder in the work bowl of a food processor fitted with a metal blade. Pulse several times until the mixture takes on the texture of a flour. Add the maple syrup and butter pieces to the food processor and pulse until the butter is evenly distributed. Add the egg, milk and maple extract and process until a sticky dough is formed.

Turn dough out onto a well-floured surface. Place pecans in center of dough and knead several times, distributing pecans evenly throughout the dough. Pat dough into a 7" to 8" circle, and cut into eight triangle wedges.

Line a cookie sheet with a Silpat mat or parchment paper (I had neither and just plunked them on the sheet, unlined, unbuttered, no problem). Place scone wedges on the prepared cookie sheet, approximately a half-inch apart, and bake 13 to 15 minutes until lightly browned. Remove from oven and allow to cool 10 minutes. Whisk together glaze ingredients and drizzle over scones, if desired.


Notes: 
“¼ cup golden flax seed meal – I didn't have any flax meal or seeds on hand, so i just subbed in a ¼ cup extra of the whole wheat flour. 2nd time i made these, i subbed in Spelt--too heavy...wouldn't recommend--but still these were a hit...”

“½ tsp. maple extract --I didn't have any, so just used vanilla. I'm sure these would be more maple-y with the proper ingredient”

http://chowhound.chow.com/topics/364270#3762918


Added: 2010-04-13

#breakfast #dessert #snack #scone