Source: Manjula’s Kitchen
Servings/Yield: 
Prep Time: 

Ingredients: 
	2 cups of All Purpose flour (Plain flour or maida)
	1 teaspoon active dry yeast
	1 teaspoon salt
	1 teaspoon sugar
	Pinch of baking soda
	2 tablespoons of oil
	2 1/2 tablespoons yogurt (curd or dahi)
	3/4 cup lukewarm water
  
	Also needed:
	1 teaspoon of clear butter or ghee to butter the Naan
	1/4 cup All Purpose flour for rolling

Directions: 
	Dissolve active dry yeast in lukewarm water and let it sit for 10 minutes or until the mixture becomes frothy. Add sugar, salt and baking soda to the flour and mix well. Add the oil and yogurt mix, this will become crumbly dough. Add the water/yeast mixture and make into soft dough. Note: after dough rise will become little softer.

	Knead until the dough is smooth. Cover the dough and keep in a warm place for 3-4 hours. The dough should almost be double in volume.

 	Heat the oven to 500 degrees with pizza stone for at least thirty minutes so stone is hot. 

	Using a pizza stone will help to give naan close to same kind of heat as clay tandoor. Next turn the oven to high broil. Knead the dough for about two to three minutes and divide the dough into six equal parts. Take each piece of dough, one at a time, and roll into 8-inch oval shape. Dust lightly with dry flour to help with the rolling.

	Before putting the Naan in oven, lightly wet your hands and take the rolled Naan, and flipp them between your palms and place onto your baking/pizza stone into the oven. You can place about 2 Naan on the baking/pizza stone at a time. The Naan will take about 2 to 3 minutes to cook, depending upon your oven. After the Naan is baked(Naan should be golden brown color on top).

	Take naan out of the oven and brush lightly with clear butter or ghee. Wait 2 to 3 minutes before baking the next batch of naan. It gives oven the chance to get heated again to max.

	Serve Naan with Daal, Chola, Palak Paneer or any vegetable. Enjoy!

Notes: 

Added: 2011-04-26

#bread #indian

