A few years ago, I discovered a trick that makes the most delectable pancakes I've ever encountered. I got the trick from the "Open House Cookbook" by Sara Leah Chase. The recipe wasn't vegan, but her method translates easily into the vegan arena. So I'll let you in on the secret: rather than melting the butter, Chase cuts the flour into the butter as if for a pie crust, until the butter and flour becomes "sand-like". This can be done in just a few seconds in the processor (and margarine, of course, can be used). After transferring this to a bowl, the liquid ingredients and flavorings are added. The net result is a pancake that is above the norm -- moist, fluffy, and satisfying. 

My other discovery in making pancakes is that cooked pureed squash (like pumpkin or butternut squash) or sweet potato can impart a lovely texture and flavor to pancakes -- making them very moist and tasty. 

In fact, using these two tricks together makes an altogether stellar pancake. The pureed veggie is added in the end, and the batter is mixed just until it's incorporated. But even if you don't add the pureed veggie, pancakes made in the "cutting" manner rather than the "melting" manner are a gift from the gods. 

Pancake Troubleshooting:
1. I like to use non-stick spray on my griddle, but spray it just before the pancakes go on, i.e., when the griddle is hot.

2. You'll know when to flip the pancakes by the formation of little holes on the uncooked side. If the pancake feels flimsy as you are turning it, give it another minute so it can cook further and strengthen its structure. Never press down with a spatula on a pancake after it is flipped - unless you want solid flat little discs for breakfast.

3. The heat should be around medium, not too high or low.

4. If you want to add fruits like bananas, strawberries, or blueberries to pancakes, it's best to add them right after the pancake has been ladled out onto the griddle.

5. I AM a big believer in eating pancakes as soon as they come off the griddle. Give your guests or partner some fruit to work on and don't worry about everyone eating pancakes all at the same time, just have your friends eat them as they are made. Just let them know that you are not playing favorites! And don't keep them in the oven to amass a pile of pancakes, not only will they dry out, but they will lose much of their texture. And don't even think of saving uneaten pancakes in the fridge, its far better to save the batter and make more the next day.

6. Go Out On Your Own - Experiment! Barley flour is nice in conjunction (50/50) with wheat flour or instead of wheat flour altogether. Also, grinding oats into oat flour is fun, and I do this in the recipe here. Instead of soy milk, you could use soy yogurt. A little applesauce wouldn't hurt either. Or why not try pureeing cooked carrots instead of squash? A little nutmeg is never a bad idea. Have fun and don't take the recipe too seriously.

7. You can easily make the batter the day ahead. Just store the batter in an air-tight container in the refrigerator.

#cooking note #pancakes #breakfast