Source:  VegFamily
Servings/Yield: 5
Prep Time: 

Ingredients: 
1 cup whole wheat flour
2/3 cups unbleached white flour
1/3 cup wheat germ or rolled oats
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
2 tablespoons cane sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
5 1/2 tablespoons cold soy margarine
3 cups soy milk
2 teaspoons cider vinegar
1 1/2 cups pureed squash, optional

Directions: 
Soy milk and vinegar should be combined. (ingredients listed as such but makes sense to list individually)

In a food processor or in a large bowl, combine the whole wheat flour, white flour, wheat germ or oats, baking powder, baking soda, cane sugar, and salt. Run the processor to mix well. Cut the margarine into small pieces with a knife, and add the margarine to the processor bowl. Either run the processor in short spurts or cut with a pastry cutter or fork until the mixture has a sand-like consistency. If you've used a food processor, transfer the mixture to a large bowl.

Make a well in the center of the flour mixture, and add the soymilk. Stir until the liquids are fully incorporated. If using the pureed veggie, stir it in now until well mixed.

Heat a griddle or a large non-stick or well-seasoned skillet over medium heat. When it is hot, grease it with an oil spray. Using a ladle, drop about 4 ounces of batter to form a pancake. Continue in this fashion, leaving a bit of space between pancakes. Let them cook, and when small bubbles appear, turn a pancake with a spatula. If it is golden brown, turn over the other pancakes. Let the pancakes cook for at least another 2 minutes on the other side. Transfer to plates, and give to friends or self and begin eating.

Continue to cook pancakes in this manner until everyone is fed!

Notes: 
This recipe has turned out to be a disappointment each time so far (except for once). The only thing we’ve come up with is that the recommendation to use wheat flour is amateurish, and that the recipe would fare better with regular flour. 


Added: 2010-04-04

#pancakes #breakfast #vegan