Source: Cooking with Seitan

	Baking is an excellent method for cooking gluten that has been shaped into cutlets. The result is a food that can then be ground, simmered in sauce, or transformed into fillable pouches. Baked cutlets have a dry consistency, and are a good choice for making ground seitan.

	For cutlets that will eventually be made into fillable pouches, use gluten made from unbleached white flour only. If the cutlets are to be ground once they are baked, use gluten that has been made either from unbleached white flour only or a combination of unbleached whet and gluten flour.

Directions:
	Preheat the oven to 400ºF. Lightly coat a baking sheet with vegetable oil.

	Form the gluten into a cylinder (about 3 – 4 inches in diameter) then slice it into 1/2–inch thick cutlets. Arrange the cutlets on the baking sheet.

	Bake the cutlets about 10 minutes before turning them over. Lightly brush more oil on the sheet before replacing the slices. Bake the cutlets until they are no longer sticky in the center (another 15 minutes).
	
	The seitan cutlets are now ready to be ground,q simmered, or formed into pouches. (See the following variations)..

VARIATION 1 — SEITAN POUCHES

	Filled with leftover grains and vegetables, seitan pouches are perfect fare to include in a picnic basket or bag lunch. Crowned with a sauce, filled seitan pouches also make an elegant entrée.

	Form a pouch by cutting seitan cutlet in half crosswise. Fill the pouch with cooked vegetables, grains, or your favorite pâté.
	
	After filling the pouch, pinch the edges together and secure with a toothpick or two (as if sewing the pouch shut).

	Place the pouches in a steamer that has been set over 1/2 inch of boiling water. Steam for 5 minutes.

VARIATION 2 – GROUND SEITAN

	A very light-textured seitan comes from gluten that has been baked. (Pan–simmered or oven–braised gluten is also good for making ground seitan.) Used to make croquettes, patties, loaves, and burgers, ground seitan can also be added to casseroles, tossed into salads, or used as a garnish for soups. Some natural foods stores carry frozen ground seitan.

	Cut baked seitan cutlets into small pieces.
	
	Add the pieces to a blender or food processor and process until the seitan becomes coarse and crumbly (do not over–process).
	
	The ground seitan is now ready to use.

VARIATION 3 – TWICE BAKED CUTLETS

	Pan simmer baked seitan cutlets in basic broth or other seasoned stock for 15 minutes.

	Carefully remove the cutlets from the broth, place them on a plate, and allow them to cool at room temperature for 15 minutes. (For faster cooling, place the hot cutlets in the refrigerator or freezer.)

	Place the cooled cutlets on an oiled baking sheet and place in a 400ºF oven. Bake the cutlets for 10 minutes on each side. (You can opt to broil the cutlets for about 4 minutes on each side.) If you desire, brush the cutlets with a little oil and sprinkle with your choice of seasonings before baking.

	Serve warm or cold, these cutlets are wonderful in sandwiches. They can also be cut into cubes or strips and added to salads and vegetable dishes.